Backup and Recovery Users Guide 11g 



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Part I Overview of Backup and Recovery


	1 Introduction to Backup and Recovery

		Purpose of Backup and Recovery
			-Planning and testing responses to different kinds of failures
 			-Configuring the database environment for backup and recovery
			-Setting up a backup schedule
			-Monitoring the backup and recovery environment
			-Troubleshooting backup problems
			-Recovering from data loss if the need arises
			-As a backup administrator, you may also be asked to perform other duties that are related to backup and recovery:
			-Data preservation, which involves creating a database copy for long-term storage
			-Data transfer, which involves moving data from one database or one host to another


Data Protection
	As a backup administrator, your primary job is making and monitoring backups for
	data protection. A backup is a copy of data of a database that you can use to
	reconstruct data. A backup can be either a physical backup or a logical backup.

	Physical backups are copies of the physical files used in storing and recovering a
	database. These files include data files, control files, and archived redo logs.
	Ultimately, every physical backup is a copy of files that store database information to
	another location, whether on disk or on offline storage media such as tape.

	Logical backups contain logical data such as tables and stored procedures. You can use
	Oracle Data Pump to export logical data to binary files, which you can later import
	into the database. The Data Pump command-line clients expdp and impdp use the
	DBMS_DATAPUMP and DBMS_METADATA PL/SQL packages.


	While several problems can halt the normal operation of an Oracle database or affect
	database I/O operations, only the following typically require DBA intervention and
	data recovery: media failure, user errors, and application errors. Other failures may
	require DBA intervention without causing data loss or requiring recovery from
	backup. For example, you may need to restart the database after an instance failure or
	allocate more disk space after statement failure because of a full data file.






	Media Failures
		A media failure is a physical problem with a disk that causes a failure of a read from or
		write to a disk file that is required to run the database. Any database file can be
		vulnerable to a media failure. The appropriate recovery technique following a media
		failure depends on the files affected and the types of backup available.
		One particularly important aspect of backup and recovery is developing a disaster
		recovery strategy to protect against catastrophic data loss, for example, the loss of an
		entire database host.


	User Errors
		User errors occur when, either due to an error in application logic or a manual
		mistake, data in a database is changed or deleted incorrectly. User errors are estimated
		to be the greatest single cause of database downtime.
		Data loss due to user error can be either localized or widespread. An example of
		localized damage is deleting the wrong person from the employees table. This type of
		damage requires surgical detection and repair. An example of widespread damage is a
		batch job that deletes the company orders for the current month. In this case, drastic
		action is required to avoid a extensive database downtime.
		While user training and careful management of privileges can prevent most user
		errors, your backup strategy determines how gracefully you recover the lost data
		when user error does cause data loss.





	Application Errors
		Sometimes a software malfunction can corrupt data blocks. In a physical corruption,
		which is also called a media corruption, the database does not recognize the block at
		all: the checksum is invalid, the block contains all zeros, or the header and footer of
		the block do not match. If the corruption is not extensive, then you can often repair it
		easily with block media recovery






Data Preservation
		Data preservation is related to data protection, but serves a different purpose. For
		example, you may need to preserve a copy of a database as it existed at the end of a
		business quarter. This backup is not part of the disaster recovery strategy. The media
		to which these backups are written are often unavailable after the backup is complete.
		You may send the tape into fire storage or ship a portable hard drive to a testing
		facility. RMAN provides a convenient way to create a backup and exempt it from your
		backup retention policy. This type of backup is known as an archival backup






Data Transfer
	In some situations you may need to take a backup of a database or database
	component and move it to another location. For example, you can use Recovery
	Manager (RMAN) to create a database copy, create a tablespace copy that can be
	imported into another database, or move an entire database from one platform to
	another. These tasks are not strictly speaking part of a backup and recovery strategy,
	but they do require the use of database backups, and so may be included in the duties
	of a backup administrator






Data Transfer
	In some situations you may need to take a backup of a database or database
component and move it to another location. For example, you can use Recovery
Manager (RMAN) to create a database copy, create a tablespace copy that can be
imported into another database, or move an entire database from one platform to
another. These tasks are not strictly speaking part of a backup and recovery strategy,
but they do require the use of database backups, and so may be included in the duties
of a backup administrator.










Oracle Backup and Recovery Solutions
	When implementing a backup and recovery strategy, you have the following solutions
	available:

	Recovery Manager is fully integrated with the Oracle database to perform a range
	of backup and recovery activities, including maintaining an RMAN repository of
	historical data about backups. You can access RMAN through the command line
	or through Oracle Enterprise Manager.

	User-managed backup and recovery
	In this solution, you perform backup and recovery with a mixture of host
	operating system commands and SQL*Plus recovery commands.You are
	responsible for determining all aspects of when and how backups and recovery
	are done.


	-Incremental backups
		An incremental backup stores only blocks changed since a previous backup.
		Thus, they provide more compact backups and faster recovery, thereby reducing
		the need to apply redo during data file media recovery. If you enable block
		change tracking, then you can improve performance by avoiding full scans of
		every input data file. You use the BACKUP INCREMENTAL command to perform
		incremental backups.


	-Block media recovery
		You can repair a data file with only a small number of corrupt data blocks without
		taking it offline or restoring it from backup. You use the RECOVER BLOCK command
		to perform block media recovery.

	-Binary compression
		A binary compression mechanism integrated into Oracle Database reduces the
		size of backups.

	-Encrypted backups
		RMAN uses backup encryption capabilities integrated into Oracle Database to
		store backup sets in an encrypted format. To create encrypted backups on disk, the
		database must use the Advanced Security Option. To create encrypted backups
		directly on tape, RMAN must use the Oracle Secure Backup SBT interface, but
		does not require the Advanced Security Option.

	-Automated database duplication
		Easily create a copy of your database, supporting various storage configurations,
		including direct duplication between ASM databases.


	-Cross-platform data conversion
		Whether you use RMAN or user-managed methods, you can supplement physical
		backups with logical backups of schema objects made with Data Pump Export utility.
		You can later use Data Pump Import to re-create data after restore and recovery.
		Logical backups are mostly beyond the scope of the backup and recovery
		documentation.





Oracle Flashback Technology
	As explained in Oracle Database Concepts, Oracle Flashback Technology complements
	your physical backup and recovery strategy. This set of features provides an additional
	layer of data protection. Specifically, you can use the various features of Oracle
	Flashback to view past states of data and rewind your database without restoring
	backups or performing point-in-time recovery. In general, flashback features are more
	efficient and less disruptive than media recovery in most situations in which they
	apply





Data Recovery Advisor
	Oracle Database includes a Data Recovery Advisor tool that automatically diagnoses
	persistent data failures, presents appropriate repair options, and executes repairs at
	your request. Data Recovery Advisor provides a single point of entry for Oracle
	backup and recovery solutions. You can use Data Recovery Advisor through the
	Enterprise Manager Database Control or Grid Control console or through the RMAN
	command-line client.
	A database failure usually manifests itself as a set of symptoms: error messages, alerts,
	trace files and dumps, and failed data integrity checks. Data Recovery Advisor
	automatically diagnoses and informs you of these failures. For Data Recovery Advisor,
	a failure is a persistent data corruption that can be directly mapped to a set of repair
	actions. Each failure has a status of open or closed. Each failure also has a priority of
	critical, high, or low.
	Failures are detected by data integrity checks, which are diagnostic procedures
	executed to assess the health of the database or its components. If a data integrity
	check reveals a failure, then Data Recovery Advisor automatically assesses the effect
	of a set of failures and maps it to a set of repair options. Usually, Data Recovery
	Advisor presents both automated and manual repair options.

	Data Recovery Advisor determines the best automated repair option and its effect on
	the database. The repair option may include repairs such as data file restore and
	recovery, media recovery, Flashback Database, and so on. Before presenting an
	automated repair option, Data Recovery Advisor validates it for the specific
	environment and the availability of media components required to complete the
	proposed repair.


	If you choose an automated repair option, then RMAN coordinates sessions on the
	Oracle database to perform the repair for you. The Data Recovery Advisor tool verifies
	the repair success and closes the appropriate failures.




---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------








2  Getting Started with RMAN 2





	Overview of the RMAN Environment
		-Recovery Manager (RMAN) is an Oracle Database client that performs backup and
		recovery tasks on your databases and automates administration of your backup
		strategies. It greatly simplifies backing up, restoring, and recovering database files.

		-A target database
			An Oracle database to which RMAN is connected with the TARGET keyword. A
			target database is a database on which RMAN is performing backup and recovery
			operations. RMAN always maintains metadata about its operations on a database
			in the control file of the database. The RMAN metadata is known as the RMAN 

		-The RMAN client
			An Oracle Database executable that interprets commands, directs server sessions
			to execute those commands, and records its activity in the target database control
			file. The RMAN executable is automatically installed with the database and is typically located in the same directory as the other database executables. For
			example, the RMAN client on Linux is located in $ORACLE_HOME/bin


		Some environments use the following optional components:
			-A fast recovery area
				A disk location in which the database can store and manage files related to backup
				and recovery. You set the fast recovery area location and size with the DB_
				RECOVERY_FILE_DEST and DB_RECOVERY_FILE_DEST_SIZE initialization parameters

			-A media manager
				An application required for RMAN to interact with sequential media devices such
				as tape libraries. A media manager controls these devices during backup and
				recovery, managing the loading, labeling, and unloading of media. Media
				management devices are sometimes called SBT (system backup to tape) devices.


			-A recovery catalog
				-A separate database schema used to record RMAN activity against one or more
				target databases. A recovery catalog preserves RMAN repository metadata if the
				control file is lost, making it much easier to restore and recover following the loss
				of the control file. The database may overwrite older records in the control file, but
				RMAN maintains records forever in the catalog unless the records are deleted by
				the user.









	Starting RMAN and Connecting to a Database







---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



